content/blog/3.md, before:

+++
title = "My experience with Zola"
description = "And why I love it"
date = 2022-12-10
+++

There are many static site generators out there and we all know the most popular is [Hugo][Hugo].
This static site generator is written in [Go][Golang], one of the most popular programming languages
that is used to write popular technologies such as [Docker][Docker] and [Gitea][Gitea]. 

During my exploration of using a static site generator, I was planning to use [Franklin.jl][Franklin.jl]
from the [Julia] programming language. Although the idea was to use that, I never really got the motivation
around that time to build my website since personal life got so busy.

## Discovering [Zola][Zola]

As a Rust enthusiast, I was finding myself looking around using tools that are written in [Rust][Rust].
We all know about the memes such as "Blazingly fast! 🚀" on most popular Rust repositories but
my discovery of Zola, admittedly, is because of well... Rust.

Like [Hugo][Hugo], [Zola][Zola] is also a static site generator but written in [Rust][Rust]. It uses the
[Tera] templating engine which is inspired by Jinja2 and Django template language. As I am also familiar with Django,
albeit out of practice and no longer using it, I am still familiar with the Jinja2 and Django template language.

I have not used [Hugo][Hugo] so I cannot really tell what features it has compared to [Zola][Zola]. Zola has various features
including a configuration file `config.toml` where you can configure if you want to generate a ToC. And of course, it
supports reading your static folder which you can put your assets and everything you want in there.

## The appeal

The number one appeal that I think what made me use [Zola][Zola] are **templates**. With the usage of the [Tera][Tera]
template language, you can reuse html files as ... guess what ... _templates_. This encourage code reuse and
adding some macros so you can modify your existing templates with another and extending it as you please. As you may all
know, my site is built with [Zola][Zola] and I haven't even used its full power yet because I am still understanding 
how this all works and all including extending and creating Tera macros. Yet, so little features used, and I already
built a website of my own. This made me happy and stick to it.

## Conclusion

[Zola][Zola] pretty well made it easy for me to write my own website and simplify my way of writing one with the [Tera][Tera]
templating engine. So far, the tool is good to me and I have not experienced any hiccups yet. 

## Minor issues
The only issue that I really **dislike** about Zola is the _lack of documentation_, which to me discourages new users to use it.
It took me 2 hours to understand how to use the templating engine and what classes and ids should I use for the SASS/CSS files
 by inspecting the generated site using Firefox's Inspect tool and also reading code from custom themes from other users.








[Zola]: https://getzola.org
[Hugo]: https://gohugo.io
[Franklin.jl]: https://franklinjl.org/
[Golang]: https://go.dev/
[Docker]: https://www.docker.com/
[Gitea]: https://gitea.io
[Julia]: https://julialang.org
[Rust]: https://rust-lang.org
[Tera]: https://github.com/Keats/tera

Commit message:

errata: clarify why not franklin

content/blog/3.md, after:

+++
title = "My experience with Zola"
description = "And why I love it"
date = 2022-12-10
+++

There are many static site generators out there and we all know the most popular is [Hugo][Hugo].
This static site generator is written in [Go][Golang], one of the most popular programming languages
that is used to write popular technologies such as [Docker][Docker] and [Gitea][Gitea]. 

During my exploration of using a static site generator, I was planning to use [Franklin.jl][Franklin.jl]
from the [Julia] programming language. Although the idea was to use that, I never really got the motivation
around that time to build my website since personal life got so busy.

## Discovering [Zola][Zola]

As a Rust enthusiast, I was finding myself looking around using tools that are written in [Rust][Rust].
We all know about the memes such as "Blazingly fast! 🚀" on most popular Rust repositories but
my discovery of Zola, admittedly, is because of well... Rust. _I have completely forgotten about
Franklin.jl at that time_, around October 2022 because the community I was in were Rust enthusiasts.

Like [Hugo][Hugo], [Zola][Zola] is also a static site generator but written in [Rust][Rust]. It uses the
[Tera] templating engine which is inspired by Jinja2 and Django template language. As I am also familiar with Django,
albeit out of practice and no longer using it, I am still familiar with the Jinja2 and Django template language.

I have not used [Hugo][Hugo] so I cannot really tell what features it has compared to [Zola][Zola]. Zola has various features
including a configuration file `config.toml` where you can configure if you want to generate a ToC. And of course, it
supports reading your static folder which you can put your assets and everything you want in there.

## The appeal

The number one appeal that I think what made me use [Zola][Zola] are **templates**. With the usage of the [Tera][Tera]
template language, you can reuse html files as ... guess what ... _templates_. This encourage code reuse and
adding some macros so you can modify your existing templates with another and extending it as you please. As you may all
know, my site is built with [Zola][Zola] and I haven't even used its full power yet because I am still understanding 
how this all works and all including extending and creating Tera macros. Yet, so little features used, and I already
built a website of my own. This made me happy and stick to it.

## Conclusion

[Zola][Zola] pretty well made it easy for me to write my own website and simplify my way of writing one with the [Tera][Tera]
templating engine. So far, the tool is good to me and I have not experienced any hiccups yet. 

## Minor issues
The only issue that I really **dislike** about Zola is the _lack of documentation_, which to me discourages new users to use it.
It took me 2 hours to understand how to use the templating engine and what classes and ids should I use for the SASS/CSS files
 by inspecting the generated site using Firefox's Inspect tool and also reading code from custom themes from other users.








[Zola]: https://getzola.org
[Hugo]: https://gohugo.io
[Franklin.jl]: https://franklinjl.org/
[Golang]: https://go.dev/
[Docker]: https://www.docker.com/
[Gitea]: https://gitea.io
[Julia]: https://julialang.org
[Rust]: https://rust-lang.org
[Tera]: https://github.com/Keats/tera
