content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "uncomfy's tavern and screams"
description = "sometimes i even wonder why i made this... oh well 🤷"
sort_by = "weight"
insert_anchor_links = "right"
template = "index.html"
+++

# About me

I am Soc (aka ***uncomfy***) and welcome to my website! I like to discuss about Linux, Wayland, and various programming languages
such as Julia, and Rust. My other interests are biology, webtoons, and anime. I have a bachelor's degree in
biology and I majored in microbiology. For now, I am currently teaching at a private university. I am
planning to shift my career related to tech but that needs some work for now. 

If you want to know what I use and what I want to learn, read further down below.

## Software and tools I use daily

- [Helix](https://helix-editor.com)
- [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs)
- [Zellij](https://zellij.dev)
- [Foot](https://codeberg.org/dnkl/foot)
- [Hyprland](https://hyprland.org)
- [RiverWM](https://github.com/riverwm/river)
 
## Programming Languages I am really familiar with

- [Julia](https://julialang.org)
- [Rust](https://rust-lang.org)

## Software and things I want to familiarize with

- **Docker**. I have a bit of knowledge
- **Podman**. I use distrobox
- **Erlang**. I heard about it because of its impressive built-in concurrency support.
- **OCaml**. First FP language I want to try since a long while before I immerse again in Haskell.
- **Systemd Administration**. I am quite familiar with writing configs with system. Timers is one of
things I haven't tried yet.
- **Kanidm**. Can't. No time for that yet.
- **Nushell**. Done. Mastery is what I am lacking
- **Crystal**. No time. Need to do the others first.

# Closing Remarks

This theme is much inspired from [zerm](https://github.com/ejmg/zerm), a really wonderful zola theme
template.

This website is designed to be for blogs but other links for other purposes can be found below:

Commit message:

add my email
Signed-off-by: Soc Virnyl Estela <socvirnyl.estela@gmail.com>

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "uncomfy's tavern and screams"
description = "sometimes i even wonder why i made this... oh well 🤷"
sort_by = "weight"
insert_anchor_links = "right"
template = "index.html"
+++

# About me

I am Soc (aka ***uncomfy***) and welcome to my website! I like to discuss about Linux, Wayland, and various programming languages
such as Julia, and Rust. My other interests are biology, webtoons, and anime. I have a bachelor's degree in
biology and I majored in microbiology. For now, I am currently teaching at a private university. I am
planning to shift my career related to tech but that needs some work for now. 

You can contact me through email at my email: socvirnyl.estela@uncomfyhalomacro.pl

If you want to know what I use and what I want to learn, read further down below.

## Software and tools I use daily

- [Helix](https://helix-editor.com)
- [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs)
- [Zellij](https://zellij.dev)
- [Foot](https://codeberg.org/dnkl/foot)
- [Hyprland](https://hyprland.org)
- [RiverWM](https://github.com/riverwm/river)
 
## Programming Languages I am really familiar with

- [Julia](https://julialang.org)
- [Rust](https://rust-lang.org)

## Software and things I want to familiarize with

- **Docker**. I have a bit of knowledge
- **Podman**. I use distrobox
- **Erlang**. I heard about it because of its impressive built-in concurrency support.
- **OCaml**. First FP language I want to try since a long while before I immerse again in Haskell.
- **Systemd Administration**. I am quite familiar with writing configs with system. Timers is one of
things I haven't tried yet.
- **Kanidm**. Can't. No time for that yet.
- **Nushell**. Done. Mastery is what I am lacking
- **Crystal**. No time. Need to do the others first.

# Closing Remarks

This theme is much inspired from [zerm](https://github.com/ejmg/zerm), a really wonderful zola theme
template.

This website is designed to be for blogs but other links for other purposes can be found below:
