content/blog/why-ph-institutions-should-use-foss/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Why Philippine Institutions Should Use FOSS"
description = "raising awareness about Free and Open Source Software in the Filipino Nation"
date = 2023-10-01
[taxonomies]
tags = ["education", "foss"]
+++

# Background

For a very long time, the Philippines is no stranger for the problems of
science and tech illiteracy, especially when it comes to the usage of their
own computers. From controversial topics such as privacy and security,
and also from the ethical and moral perspectives of using software such as
piracy and scams.

Most Filipinos do not even know the term "Open Source" nor any software that
are actually Free and Open Source Software.

Hence, I am advocating the idea of raising awareness of Free and Open Source
Software or FOSS so multiple institutions in the country would reconsider
using FOSS alternatives over proprietary ones. With this, I hope that we
learn its importance and how it will shape our lives for the better.

# So what is Open Source Software (OSS)?

Basically, *open source* is a philosophy. It is a belief that open code
collaboration is vital for the improvement and innovation of technology and
software. Open means, the code is accessible by or for everyone. Think of it
as a *humanitarian* mission to __**improve the livelihood of many people**__,
***not just developers***, in many areas such as education, and research.

## So what is "Free"?

So there is also another philosophy in the tech space called FOSS or
***Free and Open Source Software***. It is a belief that everything in
software *should* be free and free as in free beer ***and*** it should be
accessible for everyone (therefore, freedom). However, please do note that
FOSS and OSS should compensated for the *free time* they used for creating wonderful
software. You can help by donating to them and helping out their issues,
not just technically, but socially and emotionally as well.

After this, what we refer as "Open Source Software" will either mean FOSS or OSS.

# "There is X proprietary software, why use some free software?"

There is nothing wrong in using proprietary software. It always comes down
to **tolerance**—what you can allow and what you cannot allow. These
kind of "tolerances" can be in terms of "security", "trust", and "privacy"
or whatever you can come up with.

However, proprietary software is usually a ***blackbox***, which means that
you really cannot check the source if there is something malicious going
on unlike Open Source Software. This is ***partially true*** though because
OSS can still end up being malicious, it's just more *transparent*.

There are many reasons Philippines should use OSS over proprietary. These usually
comes from some of the following factors:

- Money
- Transparency

There are many others but we will focus on these for now.

## Money

Philippines is a poverty-stricken country (or corrupt-stricken?) and buying
proprietary software will cost you a lot of your salary. Because of the
culture that people should use proprietary software such productivity suites,
Filipinos are forced to find "cracked" or "hacked" forms of these proprietary
software for "free" usage ending up getting malicious programs without their
knowledge in the process such as viruses and trojans, lessening the lifespan
of their machines or even losing their files and data.

To avoid that, Filipinos should install OSS alternatives for productivity.

- [Libreoffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/) for office suites.
- [Joplin](https://joplinapp.org/) for note taking.
- [Jitsi](https://jitsi.org) for video conferences and meetings.
- [Thunderbird Mail](https://www.thunderbird.net/) for local mail client on the desktop.
- [Signal](https://signal.org/) for E2E private messaging.

### Educational Institutions Benefit More

The Department of Education, and the Commission on Higher Education can
encourage the usage of OSS. By using OSS, they can focus more of their finances
on infrastructure rather than buying proprietary software subscriptions.

Filipino students do not actually need to pay when they just want to write
documents and create presentations. I mean, if they have the money, they can
still buy and use proprietary alternatives. But using OSS empowers students
to finish school and use OSS confidently without having issues of money
and finances, especially those that do not have the means to pay.

## Transparency

Open source is **more** transparent. Institutions can have a look at the
source of the software and see what is going to be removed or added in the
future or if there were new leadership or maintainers of said software. They
are also encouraged to donate because they rely on OSS.

This transparency equates to increased trust of using software and allow
Filipinos to use the software with the necessary trust they can offer to
that software.

# UNDER CONSTRUCTION

If you have more to add, please email me at [uncomfy@uncomfyhalomacro.pl](mailto:uncomfy@uncomfyhalomacro.pl).

Commit message:

update post why ph institutions should use foss
Signed-off-by: Soc Virnyl Estela <uncomfy@uncomfyhalomacro.pl>

content/blog/why-ph-institutions-should-use-foss/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Why Philippine Institutions Should Use FOSS"
description = "raising awareness about Free and Open Source Software in the Filipino Nation"
authors = ["Soc Virnyl Estela"]
date = 2023-10-01
updated = 2023-10-11
[taxonomies]
tags = ["education", "foss"]
+++

# Background

For a very long time, the Philippines is no stranger for the problems of
science and tech illiteracy, especially when it comes to the usage of their
own computers. From controversial topics such as privacy and security,
and also from the ethical and moral perspectives of using software such as
piracy and scams.

Most Filipinos do not even know the term "Open Source" nor any software that
are actually Free and Open Source Software.

Hence, I am advocating the idea of raising awareness of Free and Open Source
Software or FOSS so multiple institutions in the country would reconsider
using FOSS alternatives over proprietary ones. With this, I hope that we
learn its importance and how it will shape our lives for the better.

# So what is Open Source Software (OSS)?

Basically, *open source* is a philosophy. It is a belief that open code
collaboration is vital for the improvement and innovation of technology and
software. Open means, the code is accessible by or for everyone. Think of it
as a *humanitarian* mission to __**improve the livelihood of many people**__,
***not just developers***, in many areas such as education, and research.

## So what is "Free"?

So there is also another philosophy in the tech space called FOSS or
***Free and Open Source Software***. It is a belief that everything in
software *should* be free and free as in free beer ***and*** it should be
accessible for everyone (therefore, freedom). However, please do note that
FOSS and OSS should compensated for the *free time* they used for creating wonderful
software. You can help by donating to them and helping out their issues,
not just technically, but socially and emotionally as well.

After this, what we refer as "Open Source Software" will either mean FOSS or OSS.

# "There is X proprietary software, why use some free software?"

There is nothing wrong in using proprietary software. It always comes down
to **tolerance**—what you can allow and what you cannot allow. These
kind of "tolerances" can be in terms of "security", "trust", and "privacy"
or whatever you can come up with.

However, proprietary software is usually a ***blackbox***, which means that
you really cannot check the source if there is something malicious going
on unlike Open Source Software. This is ***partially true*** though because
OSS can still end up being malicious, it's just more *transparent*.

There are many reasons Philippines should use OSS over proprietary. These usually
comes from some of the following factors:

- Finances
- Transparency
- Privacy

There are many others but we will focus on these for now.

## Finances

Philippines is a poverty-stricken country (or corrupt-stricken?) and buying
proprietary software will cost you a lot of your salary. Because of the
culture that people should use proprietary software such productivity suites,
Filipinos are forced to find "cracked" or "hacked" forms of these proprietary
software for "free" usage ending up getting malicious programs without their
knowledge in the process such as viruses and trojans, lessening the lifespan
of their machines or even losing their files and data.

To avoid that, Filipinos should install OSS alternatives for productivity.

- [Libreoffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/) for office suites.
- [Joplin](https://joplinapp.org/) for note taking.
- [Jitsi](https://jitsi.org) for video conferences and meetings.
- [Thunderbird Mail](https://www.thunderbird.net/) for local mail client on the desktop.
- [Signal](https://signal.org/) for E2E private messaging.

### Educational Institutions Benefit More

The Department of Education, and the Commission on Higher Education can
encourage the usage of OSS. By using OSS, they can focus more of their finances
on infrastructure rather than buying proprietary software subscriptions.

Filipino students do not actually need to pay when they just want to write
documents and create presentations. I mean, if they have the money, they can
still buy and use proprietary alternatives. But using OSS empowers students
to finish school and use OSS confidently without having issues of money
and finances, especially those that do not have the means to pay.

## Transparency

Open source is **more** transparent. Institutions can have a look at the
source of the software and see what is going to be removed or added in the
future or if there were new leadership or maintainers of said software. They
are also encouraged to donate because they rely on OSS.

This transparency equates to increased trust of using software and allow
Filipinos to use the software with the necessary trust they can offer to
that software.

## Privacy

Because of the introduction of OSS to the masses, curiousity for why this
software exists will allow Filipinos to define their privacy choices of
their usage of software.

There are many privacy-oriented alternatives against **unethical data collection**
of popular software such as Zoom, and Instagram. With the presence of OSS software
which promotes freedom and frowns on such practices, people are more likely
to have more understanding what privacy is, and how important it is
to respect someone's privacy.


# Are there things you would like to add to this post?

If you have more to add, please email me at [uncomfy@uncomfyhalomacro.pl](mailto:uncomfy@uncomfyhalomacro.pl).
